# STAT461

Repo for Stat 461-ANOVA

I will use this repository to store and share data files and other resources for my sections of Stat 461-ANOVA at Penn State.

## Key Elements

There are several key elements to this repo:

+ Homework Template File
+ rScripts
+ dataFiles
+ demoFiles
+ exampleCode

## Homework Template File

I have included a template file you may use for assignments if you are using R Markdown. The template is based upon one developed by [Alex Hayes](https://github.com/alexpghayes/rmarkdown_homework_template).

## r Scripts

This sub-directory contains R files which define multiple helpful functions for Stat 461.

### Check Setup

The `checkSetup` function will check your R setup for three things: 1) do you have a current version of R (i.e., 4.0.3+), 2) do you have the necessary packages installed (if not, it will install them), 3) will ask you if you want to install TinyTeX (and install it if you do).

To use this function copy and paste the following code in your Console and hit Return:
```
source("https://raw.github.com/neilhatfield/STAT461/master/rScripts/checkSetup.R")
checkSetup()
```

### ANOVA Tools

The ANOVATools.R file contains a set of functions that I've written to help individuals perform several common tasks related to ANOVA. There are public and private functions in this file.

#### Public Functions

As of 4/4/2020, there are three public functions: anova.PostHoc, kw.PostHoc, and block.RelEff.

##### anova.PostHoc

The anova.PostHoc function takes three arguments: aov.obj-required, response-optional, and mainEffect-optional. The aov.obj should be the output of the function aov in R. The response and mainEffect arguments take a string value to identify the response of the model as well as the main effect of interest for post hoc analysis. These two optional arguments are useful for conducting Post Hoc analysis for Oneway + Blocking ANOVA as well as exploring Main Effects for a Factorial ANOVA.

The anova.PostHoc returns a data frame of effect sizes that can be formatted by another function (e.g., knitr::kable) consisting of the following columns: Pair , Cohen's *d*, Hedge's *g*, and the Probability of Superiority.

Future plans include adding on handeling of interactions for Factorial ANOVAs.

##### kw.PostHoc

The kw.PostHoc function takes two arguments, both required: x, and g. The x argument should be the response vector and g a vector of group membership (i.e., the factor). 

THe kw.PostHoc function returns a data frame of effect sizes that can be formatted by another function (e.g., knitr::kable) consisting of the following columns: Pair , Hodges-Lehmann \(\widehat{\Delta}\), and the Probability of Superiority.

There is a known issue where the internal sink call will cause problems on Windows machines.

##### block.RelEff

The block.RelEff function takes three arguments, all required: aov.obj, blockName, trtName. The aov.objt should be the output of the function aov in R using a formula that contains a block term. The blockName should be a string identifying the column name of the block, and trtName should be a string identifying the column name for the treatment.

The block.RelEff will return a string giving the relative efficiency of the randomized complete block design used when compared to a complete randomized design. A relative efficiency of *x* means that we would need *x* times as many measurement units per treatment level as what we used in the RCB design to produce the same level of information.

#### Prive Functions

As of 4/4/2020, there are three private functions which act as helper functions: .strsplitN, .probSup, .hodgesLehmann.

##### .strsplitN

The .strsplitN function splits strings generated by dunn.test::dunn.test on the "-" and returns *N*th word.

##### .probSup

The .probSup function takes a Cohen's *d* value as the input and returns the probability of superiority, via
\[PS(d)=1-C_{\mathcal{N}}\left(\frac{-d}{\sqrt[2]{2}}\bigg|0,1\right)\]

##### .hodgesLehmann

The .hodgesLehmann function takes two vectors of values, *x* and *y*, and calculates the value of Hodges-Lehman \(\widehat{\Delta}\).

### Data Files

This sub-directory contains various data files (mostly *.dat) that I have used in STAT 461 either as in-class examples, homework assignments, or projects.

### Demo Files

This sub-directory will be the home of various R Markdown files and future files that help students learn R and develop fluency.

### Example Code

This sub-directory houses individual R files that have example code for STAT 461.

